LINKS version 2.0 release (#58)
bcgsc/LINKS: README.md

# LINKS

## Long Interval Nucleotide K-mer Scaffolder

> ## LINKS v2.0 Rene L. Warren, 2014-2021

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## LINKS v2.0.0 Rene L. Warren, 2014-2021
```
Throughout, should be v2.0.0 to have proper semantic versioning

Reviewer 2: minor (but important): murathan, let's please add Yaman and your name to developers

> ## LINKS v2.0 Rene L. Warren, Yaman Malkoc, T. Murathan Goktas 2014-2021

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## LINKS v2.0.0 Rene L. Warren, Yaman Malkoc, T. Murathan Goktas 2014-2021
```

sequences (eg. ONT reads, PacBio reads, other draft genomes, etc).
It is also used to scaffold contig pairs linked by ARCS/ARKS.

### Dependencies
-------------------------------

- GCC (tested on v7.2.0)
- Perl (tested on v5.32.1)
- Autotools (if cloning directly from repository)

### Compilation:
-------------------------------
If cloning directly from the repository run:

```
cd releases/links_v2.0/
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

Generate autotools scripts:

```
./autogen.sh
```

To compile LINKS run:

```
./configure && make
```
To install LINKS in a specified directory:

```
./configure --prefix=/LINKS/PATH && make install
```

### Running LINKS v2.0
-------------------------------
LINKS v2.0 is implemented in C++ and perl. To run the full LINKS pipeline smoothly we suggest running `LINKS-make`

> To run LINKS with default parameters with `LINKS-make`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run LINKS with default parameters with `LINKS`:
```
We spoke about this before, but where did we land on it? If a user updates the version and run `LINKS`, will it just run the C++ version only? I think the ideal would be to have a wrapper script `LINKS` that could call all the steps, and still take the same parameters as previously

```

> ./releases/links_v2.0/LINKS-make LINKS draft=NA1281_draft.fa readsFof=NA1281_reads.fof

Reviewer: Related to above - how difficult would it be to allow a user to specify parameters the same way as they did before? (ie. using `-f`, etc)
Perhaps also a discussion to hear what @warrenlr thinks - how important is it for the usage of LINKS to remain the same with v2.0.0?

Reviewer 2: yes if we remained consistent, that would be ideal

```

*These steps worked on a CentOS 7 system with 128 CPU Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E7-8867 v3 @ 2.50GHz:

### What's new in v2.0 ?
---------------------

> ~5x memory opitimization and ~3x computational optimization, no need for Bloom filter wrappers, drastic lower memory requirements which helps you to extract more information from reads by smaller step sizes(-t) and more distances(-d). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ~5x memory optimization
* ~3x computational optimization
* no need for compiling swig Bloom filter wrappers 
* drastically lower memory requirements enables extracting more information from reads using smaller step sizes (`-t`) and more distances (`-d`). 
```

- Autotools (if cloning directly from repository)

### Compilation:
-------------------------------
If cloning directly from the repository run:

```
cd releases/links_v2.0/
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

Generate autotools scripts:

```
./autogen.sh
```

To compile LINKS run:

```
./configure && make
```
To install LINKS in a specified directory:

```
./configure --prefix=/LINKS/PATH && make install
```

### Running LINKS v2.0
-------------------------------
LINKS v2.0 is implemented in C++ and perl. The C++ executable is `src/LINKS_CPP` and PERL executable is `src/LINKS.pl`. To run the full LINKS pipeline smoothly you can run `LINKS-make`. However `LINKS-make` is a Makefile and have different argument naming convention(such as d=xx t=yy instead of -d xx -t yy). 

We suggest running `LINKS` (shell script) to run whole pipeline with smoothly with LINKS naming convention(such as -d xx -t yy).

To run LINKS with default parameters with `LINKS`:
```
./releases/links_v2.0/LINKS -f NA1281_draft.fa -s NA1281_reads.fof
```

*These steps worked on a CentOS 7 system with 128 CPU Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E7-8867 v3 @ 2.50GHz:

### What's new in v2.0 ?
---------------------

> ~5x memory opitimization and ~3x computational optimization, no need for Bloom filter wrappers, drastically lower memory requirements which helps you to extract more information from reads by using smaller step sizes(-t) and more k-mer distances(-d) in a single LINKS run. 

Author: Ups I thought it was committed. Fixed.

sequences (eg. ONT reads, PacBio reads, other draft genomes, etc).
It is also used to scaffold contig pairs linked by ARCS/ARKS.

### Dependencies
-------------------------------

- GCC (tested on v7.2.0)
- Perl (tested on v5.32.1)
- Autotools (if cloning directly from repository)

### Compilation:
-------------------------------
If cloning directly from the repository run:

```
cd releases/links_v2.0.0/
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

Generate autotools scripts:

```
./autogen.sh
```

To compile LINKS run:

```
./configure && make
```
To install LINKS in a specified directory:

```
./configure --prefix=/LINKS/PATH && make install
```
* *These steps worked on a CentOS 7 system with 128 CPU Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E7-8867 v3 @ 2.50GHz

### Running LINKS v2.0.0
-------------------------------

> Users can run `LINKS` (shell script) to run whole pipeline smoothly with LINKS naming convention(such as -d xx -t yy) as pre 2.0.0 versions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Users can run `LINKS` (shell script) to run whole pipeline smoothly with LINKS parameters (such as -d xx -t yy) as pre 2.0.0 versions.
```

To run LINKS with default parameters with `LINKS`:
```
./releases/links_v2.0.0/LINKS -f NA1281_draft.fa -s NA1281_reads.fof
```

> * *LINKS v2.0.0 is implemented in C++ and perl. The C++ executable is `src/LINKS_CPP` and PERL executable is `src/LINKS.pl`. To run the full LINKS pipeline smoothly you can run `LINKS-make`. However `LINKS-make` is a Makefile and have different argument naming convention(such as d=xx t=yy instead of -d xx -t yy).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* *LINKS v2.0.0 is implemented in C++ and perl. The C++ executable is `src/LINKS_CPP` and PERL executable is `src/LINKS.pl`. To run the full LINKS pipeline smoothly you can run `LINKS-make`. However `LINKS-make` is a Makefile and has a different argument value assignment (such as d=xx t=yy instead of -d xx -t yy).
```

### What's new in v2.0.0 ?
---------------------

> * ~5x memory optimization

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ~5x less memory usage
```

> * ~3x computational optimization

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ~3x faster run time
```

> * no need for compiling swig Bloom filter wrappers 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* no need for compiling SWIG Bloom filter wrappers 
```

-t  step of sliding window when extracting k-mer pairs from long reads
(default -t 2, optional)
	Multiple steps are separated by comma. eg. -t 10,5

> -j  thread count

Reviewer: This section needs to be updated - ex. what is default threads, version number. Also, if a user followed this would it only run the C++ stage?
